---
layout: post
title: Forward Programme 2012-2013
description: The aim of this programme, is to give members a varied range of aspects and techniques...
date: 2012-09-01
author: Graham Welsby
img: /assets/img/12.jpg
---

The aim of this programme, is to give members a varied range of aspects and techniques.  Consisting of Focus Points, that are more discussions, and workshops where you should bring your cameras along to give it a go.

 
<br><br>

####Workshops / Focus Points.

<br>



* 24th September 2012

<b>Filters</b> – Why / What / How… What are they, what are they for, when should you use them, what effects can you get form them. Advantages/disadvantages.

* 29th October 2012

<b>Exposure</b> – This month we will talk about the basics of exposure. Understand the light on a given situation/subject and the contrasts it will give. What settings on your camera will effect each other. How to adjust your work flow / thought process on exposure. Take control and dare to use ‘Manual Mode’ and ‘meter’ your frame accordingly. Bring your cameras with you, there will be lots of experimenting.

* 26th November 2012

<b>Light Painting</b> – This will be a play with some lights, how to expose and photograph using slightly longer exposures and examples on what can be achieved with this technique. This is great for Christmas Lights, and being creative over the Christmas period when it’s cold outside, unless your brave enough to get out there.

* 28th January 2013

<b>Fill Flash</b> – This work shop is going to show you how to utilise the flash on your camera to achieve a more pleasing image. This is not just for better portraits so bring your cameras and we can test out the techniques. (NOTE: Please read up in your instruction manual how to control the flash, or at least get to the settings to adjust the type/amount of power, BOTH DSLR’s and Compact users).

* 25th February 2013

<b>Projects at Home</b> – What can you do with minimal equipment? What would you like to do but are unsure how. We need your thoughts for this one, if you don’t make suggestions we can present some ideas for some personal projects to test out the techniques you have learnt over the past 2 seasons and stretch your creativity.

* 25th March 2013

<b>Angles</b> – Follow on from the Composition Focus Point in the previous year. Examples of images where the photographer has not used the ‘normal’ angle to take their image, but still follows the ‘rules’ of composition to achieve an appealing image.

* 29th April 2013

<b>Panning</b> – This is a discussion and practical demonstration of panning techniques for use with sports, animals and other such subjects.

* 27th May 2013

<b>Water</b> – he Sea, Rivers, Lakes, Rain, Storms. How to use all the technical Focus Points and Workshops to photography these in different times of day, making decisions on your camera settings and accessories to create different looks, and moods to tell a story.

* 24th June 2013

<b>Architecture</b> – This will be a discussion on Angles, exposure, Composition, abstract, lots and lots of different ideas for this subject .

* 29th July 2013

<b>Street / Urban Photography</b> – This subject will force you to know your camera inside and out, you need the ability to change settings very quickly. Understand composition, exposure, light control, angles, colour/black and white. A presentation of how to approach subjects, what sort of things to look out for.  Free E-Book for all attending members on Street photography.

<br>
<br>




####CLUB COMPETITIONS...
<br>

####Quarterly Competition.

(Crop to be no larger than A4)

<ul>
	<li>October - TBA</li>
	<li>January - TBA</li>
	<li>April - TBA</li>
	<li>July - TBA</li>
</ul>

<br>

####Monthly Competitions.

(Crop to be no larger than 7x5)

<ul>
	<li>September - TBA</li>
	<li>October - TBA</li>
	<li>November - TBA</li>
	<li>January - TBA</li>
	<li>February - TBA</li>
	<li>March - TBA</li>
	<li>April - TBA</li>
	<li>May - TBA</li>
	<li>June - TBA</li>
	<li>July - TBA</li>
</ul>
