---
layout: post
title: Forward Programme 2013-2014
description: Years club programme and events for 2013-2014.
date: 2014-09-01
author: Graham Welsby
img: /assets/img/12.jpg
---

The aim of this programme, is to give members a varied range of aspects and techniques.  Consisting of Focus Points, that are more discussions, and workshops where you should bring your cameras along to give it a go.

 
<br><br>

####Workshops / Focus Points.

<br>



* 31st September 2013

<b>Recourses</b> – Why / Where / How… We will be looking on how to utilise YouTube as a valuable educational recourse.

* 28th October 2013

<b>Macro</b> – This month we will be covering the world of macro photography. Small close ups, small insects etc. The equipment, technique etc…

* 25th November 2013

<b>Through the Lens</b> – F stops, numbers, zoom, prime, what does it all mean? Which one is for you? What do they all do?

* 27th January 2014

<b>Judging</b> – During this focus point, we will be discussing what to look for when judging the BCC’s competitions. The rules and examples of what they mean.

* 24th February 2014

<b>Whats in your bag?</b> – What do you carry with you in your camera bag? Is it a lens wipe, spare batteries, a million lenses, just memory cards? Open forum tonight again to discuss simple ideas that may help others learn about very simple equipment that can make a big difference. Remember that piece of A4 white paper…

* 31st March 2014

<b>Exposure</b> – Something we have covered before, but looking to refresh your memory and go into some more advanced settings.

* 28th April 2014

<b>Wildlife</b> – This will be talking all about wildlife photography, what to look for, tips and tricks to getting those moments.

* 26th May 2014

<b>Manipulation</b> – This is outside the usual competition ruling. But it is a skill that is useful for your personal projects. Simple cloning, touching up techniques… if you have specific questions or images you would like worked on, please email them prior to the meeting and we will see what we can do.

* 30th June 2014

<b>Model Night</b> – Following on from the popular lighting night, we are hopefully getting in our model again, and going through some tips to getting a good pose. How to interact to get the best out of your subject.

* 24th July 2015

<b>TBA</b> – This all depends on what comes out of the Open Forums, and will be decided through the year.

<br>
<br>




####CLUB COMPETITIONS...
<br>

####Quarterly Competition.

(Crop to be no larger than A4)

<ul>
	<li>October - Partly Obscured</li>
	<li>January - TBA</li>
	<li>April - TBA</li>
	<li>July - TBA</li>
</ul>

<br>

####Monthly Competitions.

(Crop to be no larger than 7x5)

<ul>
	<li>September - Street Photography</li>
	<li>October - The Colour Purple</li>
	<li>November - TBA</li>
	<li>January - TBA</li>
	<li>February - TBA</li>
	<li>March - TBA</li>
	<li>April - TBA</li>
	<li>May - TBA</li>
	<li>June - TBA</li>
	<li>July - TBA</li>
</ul>
