---
layout: post
title: Forward Programme 2014-2015
description: This years program is more workshops...
date: 2014-09-01
author: Graham Welsby
img: /assets/img/12.jpg
---

This years program is more workshops, you should definitely bring along your camera. There are a varied range of aspects and techniques to practice.

Further to discussions this year, we are setting out the <b>whole</b> Years Competitions. That is for both Monthly and Quarterly, plenty of time to practice.

 
<br><br>

####Workshops / Focus Points.

<br>



* 29th September 2014

<b>Aperture</b> – Bring your camera’s for this workshop. We are going to take a series of images and see the effect the aperture has on them.

* 27th October 2014

<b>Histogram</b> – We will look at the Histogram and see if we can use this to help with exposure, and try and decipher what it means. Bring your cameras and manuals (Or at least to look in it to know where your Histogram is on your camera).

* 24th November 2014

<b>Shutter Speeds</b> – Bring your camera’s as we will be taking a series of images to see the effects of shutter speeds.

* 26th January 2015

<b>Intermediate Lighting</b> – Further to the last set of workshops from the last few years, we will be looking at some more difficult lighting set ups.

* 23rd February 2015

<b>Intermediate Manipulation</b> – We will be looking at more advanced techniques of Manipulation. If there is a particular technique you would like to look at, please let us know.

* 30th March 2015

<b>ISO</b> – Something we don’t seem to have looked at. This workshop will be looking at the effects good and bad of different ISO settings.

* 27th April 2015

<b>Perspective</b> – In this session, we will be discussing the ‘perspective’ aspect of photography. This includes composition, lines, cropping, angles and anything else that helps improve your image.

* 25th May 2015

<b>Panning</b> – Pretty obvious what this workshop includes.

* 29th June 2015

<b>Owl Man</b> – (TBA) We will be repeating our workshop that was very popular. If our friendly ‘Owl Man’ is available, we will be inviting him over for us to take some images of his very beautiful Owls.

* 27th July 2015

<b>Replication</b> – Here we will be discussing the art of ‘Replication’ for learning a new technique.

<br>
<br>




####CLUB COMPETITIONS...
<br>

####Quarterly Competition.

(Crop to be no larger than A4)

<ul>
	<li>October - Reflextions</li>
	<li>January - Shoes</li>
	<li>April - Shadows</li>
	<li>July - Replication</li>
</ul>

<br>

####Monthly Competitions.

(Crop to be no larger than 7x5)

<ul>
	<li>September - Tourist or Local</li>
	<li>October - Angles</li>
	<li>November - Broken</li>
	<li>January - Stripes</li>
	<li>February - Out of Place</li>
	<li>March - Repetition</li>
	<li>April - Spots</li>
	<li>May - Water Droplets</li>
	<li>June - In the Wet</li>
	<li>July - Four Legs</li>
</ul>
